So many dinners at his place and so many meetings at that place that I know him already.
You're saying at his place, over where he lives?
Yeah.
I'm not a big fan of him though.
I think he's a good man, he does right, but sometimes, I don't know.
Other proud moments as RHA president?
Getting to serve on that
the bonfire committees.
That was pretty good.
And this is the committee to review and make recommendations?
Yes, the big committee.
Get to work with all those people.
Get to meet a lot of the people that I met this year.
Make those
What are they called?
Acquaintances or get to meet all those people in those high places.
Did you meet some celebrities?
Some famous people?
No.
You didn't get to shake hands with Tony Blair then last Sunday?
The only people were the Regents and this one time I was, Bowen has these,
buffets before the games and this one time they asked me to speak at one of them and I spoke the week before when we played I think Baylor or I can't remember if it was Notre Dame or Baylor we were invited to that and I took a date with me and we were at this table, the table in front of us
There was George, or old President Bush, Governor Perry, and a bunch of other people like that.
The week after that, we sat in that table, but we didn't have any important people there.
And we tried to go up there, or some friends of mine tried to go up there and get his autograph or shake his hand, and they were told no.
And the following week, when I was told I was gonna sit there and talk, I was like, if somebody big goes, I will get to meet him, but we didn't have the luck.
Did anybody play any pranks or make any jokes on the RHA president during your term?
No.
The biggest thing this year,
And I've been told by a lot of the people that worked under me or that people had so much respect for me that that's why I got a lot of stuff done.
Because they knew that I went in and I went in to do something and change things.
That I didn't have a lot of pranks or anything like that.
They were just, they should say they just respected me that much.
Right.
What did you learn about leadership from all this experience?
It's a tough thing.
Leadership is kind of tough.
There's so many different groups.
There's so much background.
People that want to do their own thing.
You can't always do the right thing.
And even if you try and you think it is, it's not always the right thing.
And even if you do think, many people are going to try to challenge it.
It's hard to lead a group.
It's hard to lead such a group that's 8,500 or more people.
That is such a big organization to lead.
and time management, anger skills.
I was stressed most of the time this year.
For the first time in my life I'd been that stressed and that mad at something.
And it was just, at one point I thought it was just too much to handle.
What would you do to get rid of those frustrations?
Change your major, first of all.
Change your major?
Yeah.
From what to what?
from probably electrical engineering to maybe history or.
Oh, you, that's what you would have, but you didn't.
No, I didn't.
No, no.
I was still engineering.
It's a very tough major to be an A, and it's just too much time.
I was spending 50% of my time in school, 50% with RHA.
I didn't have a lot of free time.
Did your grades this year suffer?
Yeah, a lot.
Now when will you graduate?
December of next year.
Okay.
Or this coming December.
This coming December of 2002.
Okay.
Have you started to interview yet?
Not yet.
I'm planning to do that as soon as I can, as soon as I have a little free time left.
When does your term officially end?
Next week.
And is there a ceremony?
It's a banquet.
It's a passing of the gavel or whatever.
I didn't even get a gavel.
The person before me just
didn't do a lot and just didn't decide to give me a gavel.
He said it was important and he left the organization kind of in a bad state.
Do you have any plans to give advice to the group at that banquet?
Yes, I'm going to say my farewell speech.
What are the major points you're going to make?
I haven't really done it, but one of the things is that I'm challenging them to make next semester better.
so I can leave happy.
I want them to be involved, and I want them to put their heart into it, because without heart, there's no point for them trying to do anything.
Are there any major changes?
If you had the authority to change the resident halls here, are there any changes you would make?
Yes, hall director, the way people pick hall directors.
Some of those hall directors,
really need to leave A&M.
Some hall directors come in and they don't even like the school.
I don't see how you're going to lead a hall if you can't be an Aggie.
You don't like our traditions and stuff like that and don't come here.
I think one of the biggest things that I've said is that if they made the school smaller to where maybe like 20,000 but they were
proud Aggies, the school would be a lot better.
I mean, I know there's people that come in just to study, and that's fine.
I mean, they make the school look good.
But those people that are going to study but be real Aggies can make the school a lot better.
I would go with that instead of having 45 or 50,000.
Let's see, would you change, we have, do we have coed resident halls?
Yeah.
Is that good or not good?
For some halls it's okay.
But the halls like Walton, Crocker, Moore, some of those that have been old, in old school, they should stay the way they are.
Should we have no smoking floors?
They have them.
They do?
Is that a good idea?
Yeah, because there's people that want to come in and do their thing and not have to worry about that.
There's floors that are just no drinking.
I mean there's people that are really like that, that's fine.
I mean I don't see anything wrong with that.
Is noise a problem?
Sometimes.
For me, it's sometimes hard to concentrate because I hear a little noise and I want to go out.
Some of those halls are very noisy, but that's just the community.
Let's see, other traditions that I should have mentioned, muster.
Have you gone to muster?
Yeah.
I've been there twice.
It's a spectacular thing.
It's just, I mean, those candles are being lit and being blown out.
I mean, it's a beautiful thing.
I'm going to do my 26th muster speech this year.
What do you think of them?
Oh, superb, superb.
It's a splendid unifying.
That's great.
Your senior ring, when did you buy it?
Last November.
I think I've had it for a year now.
How much did it cost?
$400, I think.
Was it your money?
Your parents' money?
Who?
My parents' money.
They kind of paid for it.
How did you feel when you first?
When I got it, I just couldn't stop looking at it.
It was just something very nice.
Everybody always talks about their senior ring.
Why is an Aggie senior ring special?
Because you've earned it.
I really believe you've earned it.
There's some people that
They've been here and they put their time.
I don't believe they kind of earned it, earned it.
They're just here for the ring.
But if you're here and you do your part to A&M, not only to yourself, but to help other people and you get the ring, you know you've earned it.
You've put so much time into it.
Will you go to commencement when you graduate?
Yes.
Who do you think will be there?
Who else close to you?
Friends or family.
Definitely my family.
How many?
Well, one thing that I haven't said is about two or three weeks ago I lost, I never lost anybody close to me.
The closest that I had lost somebody were the 12 people that died in a bonfire because they had become part of my family.
and that I had never lost anybody close to me.
And about three weeks ago, I lost one of the closest people to me, which was my grandma, the one that I had grown up to and kind of she raised me.
A few months ago, we had been talking, my aunt was there, and she said, are we going to get ready for your graduation?
And they were saying yes, and my grandma was getting sick at that time.
She wasn't able to speak that much, and she looked at her and said, we're going, right, to Jorge's graduation?
And she's like, yes.
So...
I'm going to dedicate that graduation to her.
Yeah, when you've got that diploma, think of her.
Think of her.
What is it that pulls Aggies together?
What makes Aggie spirit?
The undefinable Aggie spirit.
Explain Aggie spirit.
I've tried so hard to explain it.
And unless people are Aggies, they will not understand.
But are there some key events that are part of creating that spirit?
Just the unity that people, once they get here, when they become close to somebody that's an Aggie and they start explaining all the traditions and everything, that's the undying Aggie spirit.
And it's true when they say the Aggie lore is that
from the outside looking in you can't understand it from the inside looking and you can't explain it it's just once you come here you feel that spirit and you can try so many times to explain it but you just can't it's just people don't understand it they have to be they have to come and be part of it and that spirit can be created whether you're living in the core dorms or in walton hall
As long as you're here at A&M, I think you start feeling it from the moment you step on.
You go to the first main ideal, the first Aggie game.
People rub off on you and you know, you feel that spirit.
Silvercaps a part of that, and Mustard?
Of course, they all are.
They're on later on, you know, you come in and later on that semester or later on that month or whatever, that's when you have the first and you start really feeling and you see around you and see all those Aggies willing to spend some time of their busy schedule to honor other Aggies.
And that's just awesome.
All right, now we've only got to get near the end.
Among the questions I would ask these old Aggies is this one.
What did you learn at A&M that has been important to your life?
Now, they'd be looking back.
What have you learned at A&M so far that you think is going to be important in your life?
Trusting the people you work with.
I'm sorry?
Trusting those people you work with.
I mean, you have to trust people.
And once you leave here, you're going to have to trust either, even if they aren't Aggies, you're going to have to look for people and be friends with them.
A lot of the stuff you learn here is how to make those friends.
So once you leave from here, a lot of people are so close-minded, even when they're here or they're out of here, but open your mind and just... And that's another thing that RJ has taught me, that be patient on a lot of things.
Stuff will come.
Now, A&M Spirit, does it draw people in, or does it exclude people?
Different groups exclude people, but A&M itself brings people in.
And did A&M, your experience at A&M, help your work habits?
Yeah.
First of all, my study habits, yes.
I had to learn how to study.
Work habits, definitely, because I was able to work on Bonfire.
I was able to do RHA, which is a big time consuming and a big organization that you have to learn how to work.
Alright, if you were hired as a consultant to Texas A&M's leadership today to advise them about A&M's future, what advice would you give them?
First of all, don't exclude people because of backgrounds or anything like that.
One of the big things was, and I could feel that when I became president a lot of people were talking behind my back saying he's not going to be good because he's got a bonfire past.
Because you never know how somebody's going to turn out.
They could look like the most perfect person or president, and they turn out to be really bad.
Or somebody that you see him, you're like, this guy's not going to be good at all.
Turns out to be such a great asset to your organization that he changes everything.
So one thing would be give a person a chance.
And there's some people that you know are not going to be good.
You can tell by the way they act and the way they look at other people and the way they talk.
but I still believe you should give them a chance and see what happens.
Let those student leaders make the decisions.
You're a consultant, you're an advisor.
If you need to step in, step in, but let them take care of it because that's their organization.
All right.
Now, nothing you have said, have you given me the impression that anything was more difficult for you here made difficult for you because you were Hispanic?
I try not to ever look at it like that.
All right.
You give me the impression that you were an individual, and is that a correct perception?
Yes.
Definitely.
I've never had that problem.
Maybe a few times you're in there at this maybe thing that I thought people were maybe thinking because he's Mexican or he's light skinned or he's darker skinned than we are or something remotely being racist.
But if that has happened, I put it on my mind.
I don't let that run my everyday life or anything like that.
You hinted that if you were a decision maker A&M would not be any larger than it is now.
If you were the emperor, how large would you have A&M?
The biggest I would let it be maybe 45, 46.
About what it is now?
Yeah.
I think it's a great number.
The only way I'd see it be bigger is better faculty as well.
capable of teaching.
To what A&M students, faculty, staff, et cetera, to what people connected with A&M do you feel the most gratitude?
Walton Hall.
By far.
Your buddies there?
If I wouldn't have lived there, I don't think anything that I've done up to now, I don't think I would have done anything up to now.
You think you've made some friends for life there?
Definitely.
I'll see them whenever I can at their weddings or anything like that.
All right.
Next to last question.
If you had the financial capability to make a major gift to Texas A&M, a million dollars or more, for what purpose would you want that gift used?
To build a new headquarters for Residence Life.
and the new residence halls I want to do, to have it done at the same time.
That would be pretty important.
All right, then the last question.
What feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M?
I have a lot of love for it.
And it's not so much the university itself, but the students.
I care a lot about the freshmen that are coming up.
That they get treated kind of the way I got treated when I came in.
They get accepted.
They have a chance to become involved.
because that is important.
All of us, the older group, are going out.
So it doesn't matter what we say.
As important as those freshmen coming in and they have the right stuff and not be led the wrong way and all that stuff.
So I care a lot about this place.
It's in my heart.
It's changed me a lot.
It's given me a lot.
And it's such a special place.